# Principles

- #[Routes](#routes)
- #[Domain](#domain)
- #[Modules](#modules)
- #[Controller](#controller)
- #[Feature](#feature)
- #[Request](#request)
- #[Operation](#operation)
- #[Job](#job)
- #[Operation Vs Feature](#operation-vs-feature)

---

>***Better Laravel** is not a new framework—it's a set of principles you can follow to build a `cleaner`,`better` and `more human-readable` Laravel application. By adhering to these principles, you can transform your code into something more maintainable and elegant.*

#### # Routes
<a id="routes"></a>

Routes in **Better Laravel** function the same as Laravel's default routes. The key difference is that routes are loaded via the `BetterLaravelServiceProvider`, giving you complete control.

For more details, see:

:::list{type="success"}
- [Configuration](configuration)
- `BetterLaravelServiceProvider.php`
:::

---

#### # Domain
<a id="domain"></a>

The **Domain** is where the core business logic resides. It typically includes the following resources:

:::list{type="primary"}
- **Jobs**
- **Requests**
:::

:::alert{type="warning"}
**Note:**<br><br>

Resources within the **Domain** are globally accessible across the application. This means they can be shared and consumed by any feature or module, offering flexibility in usage.
:::

---

#### # Modules
<a id="modules"></a>

**Modules** are self-contained units of business logic designed to maintain separation of concerns and enhance code organization. Each module generally includes the following:

:::list{type="primary"}
- **HTTP**
	:::list{type="primary"}
	- **Controllers**
	:::
- **Features**
:::

:::alert{type="warning"}
**Important:** <br><br>

Resources within a module are **not shareable** across the application. They are intended for use only within their respective module, ensuring a clean separation of concerns and preventing unintended dependencies.
:::

---

#### # Controller
<a id="controller"></a>

**Controller** is Responsible for

:::list{type="primary"}
- **Serving the Feature**
- **Returning everything returned from Feature to the Request**
:::

---

#### # Feature
<a id="feature"></a>

**Feature** is Responsible for

:::list{type="primary"}
- **Validating the Request**
- **Running Job(s) / Operation(s)**
- **Mapping the data from Job(s) to response**
- **Returning the HTTP Response to the Controller Method**
:::

---

#### # Request
<a id="request"></a>

**Request** is Responsible for

:::list{type="primary"}
- **Validating the incoming HTTP Request**
- **Authorization of the Request**
:::

---

#### # Operation
<a id="operation"></a>

**Operation** is Responsible for

:::list{type="primary"}
- **Running the Job(s)**
:::

---

#### # Job
<a id="job"></a>

**Job** is Responsible for

:::list{type="primary"}
- **Handling Laravel Models**
- **Providing the data to Feature**
:::

---

#### # Operation VS Feature
<a id="operation-vs-feature"></a>

Even though both of Operation and Feature are responsible for running the Job(s), there is a slight difference between them.

:::list{type="primary"}
- **`Feature` can be served from the Controller but the `Operation` cannot be.**
- **`Operation` can only be run from the `Feature`. It means it cannot work without the `Feature`.**
- **`Operation` is optional in application, but the `Feature` is not.**
:::

:::alert{type="info"}
**TIP** <br><br>
Operation can be useful in running a set of Jobs which will have to be run from the another Feature as well. Instead of running same Job(s) from multiple Features, we can `collect those duplicate Job(s) into a single Operation`, and run that Operation from multiple Features.
:::

---
